# CS340-GS-Animal-Shelter-Database

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

- Having code that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable is necessary for all aspects of coding in today's world. Technology is always progressing and being able to bring forward code and keeping it up to date is essential. Making sure code is readable means keeping it clean and commented throughout so that when someone goes through it, they are able to understand what is going on in the code. Keeping code clean can be done by creating method calls instead of rewritting the same code all the time. In the CRUD python module we made create, read, update and delete methods so that we can just call them in our main code without having to write it again. This also falls under adaptability. If we create a different source code for a different purpose. The CRUD python module can still be utilized for the same purpose but with a different outcome depending on what the programmer needs it for. Using the CRUD methods also makes the code maintainable because if we need to change the CRUD methods it will affect our source code. If we create the CRUD python module to be much more secure or make sure it catches more exemptions, all we need to do is only change the CRUD python code and it will carry over. 

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

- My approach is fairly similar throughout my work. I do a lot of reading through materials and use the manuals for the programs I utilize. In this case I referred frequently to the MongoDB calls and to the dashboard manuals. I also do a lot of Google research because I find that even if someone has an issue that isn't pertaining to what I'm doing, I frequently find the answer to their questions to be helpful for me and can understand how to make the necessary changes to my own code that will make it work. This is really more for when I get error codes though. I also look for help from my peers or the professor for guidance if I find myself completely stuck. Perseverence is key in coding.

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

- Computer scientists really make things easier on companies through creating programs that can help them achieve their goals but to also offer a different perspective on how they can reach these goals. I feel that companies have a vision of what they want and it is the job of computer scientist to create that vision through the programs that the companies can utilize. Computer scientists are very analytical thinkers and can often bring up things to the attention that have not been considered. For the companies like Grazioso Salvare, it has made it significantly easier to search for the animals they wanted to train by getting animal information from rescue offices within the area. Creating a database such as this decreased the leg work needed to look for these animals by going to each office and getting the information that they need. It also likely saved them a lot of money as well. 
